README.md, before:

# SolWP [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/olefredrik/SolWP.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/olefredrik/SolWP)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/tpkemme/solwp?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

This is a starter-theme for WordPress based on Foundation 6, the most advanced responsive (mobile-first) framework in the world. The purpose of SolWP, is to act as a small and handy toolbox that contains the essentials needed to build any design. SolWP is meant to be a starting point, not the final product.

Please fork, copy, modify, delete, share or do whatever you like with this.

All contributions are welcome!

## Requirements

**This project requires [Node.js](http://nodejs.org) v4.x.x to v6.9.x to be installed on your machine.** Please be aware that you will most likely encounter problems with the installation if you are using v7.1.0 with all the latest features.

SolWP uses [Sass](http://Sass-lang.com/) (CSS with superpowers). In short, Sass is a CSS pre-processor that allows you to write styles more effectively and tidy.

The Sass is compiled using libsass, which requires the GCC to be installed on your machine. Windows users can install it through [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/), and Mac users can install it through the [Xcode Command-line Tools](http://osxdaily.com/2014/02/12/install-command-line-tools-mac-os-x/).

If you have not worked with a Sass-based workflow before, I would recommend reading [SolWP for beginners](https://solwp.olefredrik.com/posts/tutorials/solwp-for-beginners), a short blog post that explains what you need to know.

## Quickstart

### 1. Clone the repository and install with npm
```bash
$ cd my-wordpress-folder/wp-content/themes/
$ git clone https://github.com/olefredrik/SolWP.git
$ cd SolWP
$ npm install
```

### 2. While you're working on your project, run:

```bash
$ npm run watch
```

If you want to take advantage of browser-sync (automatic browser refresh when a file is saved), simply open your Gulpfile.js and put your local dev-server address (e.g localhost) in this field ```var URL = '';``` , save the Gulpfile and run
```bash
$ npm run watch
```

### 3. For building all the assets, run:

```bash
$ npm run build
```

Build all assets minified and without sourcemaps:
```bash
$ npm run production
```

### 4. To create a .zip file of your theme, run:

```bash
$ npm run package
```

Running this command will build and minify the theme's assets and place a `.zip` archive of the theme in the `packaged` directory. This excludes the developer files/directories from your theme like `node_modules`, `assets/components`, etc. to keep the theme lightweight for transferring the theme to a staging or production server.

### Styles

 * `style.css`: Do not worry about this file. (For some reason) it's required by WordPress. All styling are handled in the Sass files described below

 * `assets/scss/solwp.scss`: Make imports for all your styles here
 * `assets/scss/global/*.scss`: Global settings
 * `assets/scss/components/*.scss`: Buttons etc.
 * `assets/scss/modules/*.scss`: Topbar, footer etc.
 * `assets/scss/templates/*.scss`: Page template spesific styling

Please note that you **must** run `npm run build` or `npm run watch` in your terminal for the styles to be copied and concatenated. See the [Gulpfile.js](https://github.com/olefredrik/SolWP/blob/master/gulpfile.js) for details

### Scripts

* `assets/javascript/custom`: This is the folder where you put all your custom scripts. Every .js file you put in this directory will be minified and concatenated one single .js file. (This is good for site speed and performance)

Please note that you must run `npm run build` or `npm run watch` in your terminal for the scripts to be copied and concatenated. See [Gulpfile.js](https://github.com/olefredrik/SolWP/blob/master/gulpfile.js) for details

### The main styles and scripts generated by the build

Version control on these files are turned off because they are automatically generated as part of the build process.

* `assets/stylesheets/solwp.css`: All Sass files are minified and compiled to this file
* `assets/stylesheets/solwp.css.map`: CSS source maps

* `assets/javascript/vendor`: Vendor scripts are copied from `assets/components/` to this directory. We use this path for enqueing the vendor scripts in WordPress.

### Check For WordPress Coding Standards

Foundation comes with everything you need to run tests that will check your theme for WordPress Coding Standards. To enable this feature you'll need to install PHP Codesniffer, along with the WordPress Coding Standards set of "Sniffs". You'll need to have [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) To install both run the following:
```bash
$ composer create-project wp-coding-standards/wpcs:dev-master --no-dev
```
When prompted to remove existing VCS, answer Yes by typing `Y`.

Once you have installed the packages, you can check your entire theme by running:
```bash
$ npm run phpcs
```

If there are errors that Code Sniffer can fix automatically, run the following command to fix them:
```bash
$ npm run phpcbf
```

## Demo

* [Clean SolWP install](http://solwp.olefredrik.com/)
* [SolWP Kitchen Sink - see every single element in action](http://solwp.olefredrik.com/kitchen-sink/)

## Unit Testing With Travis-CI

SolWP is completely ready to be deployed to and tested by Travis-CI for WordPress Coding Standards and best practices. All you need to do to activate the test is sign up and follow the instructions to point Travis-CI towards your repo. Just don't forget to update the status badge to point to your repositories unit test.
[Travis-CI](https://travis-ci.org/)

## UI toolkits for rapid prototyping

* [Foundation UI Kit for Axure RP](https://gumroad.com/l/solwp-ui-kit-axure-rp)
* [FoundationXD - Foundation UI Kit for Adobe XD](https://gumroad.com/l/solwp-ui-kit-xd)
* [FoundationPSD - Foundation UI Kit for Photoshop](https://gumroad.com/l/solwp-ui-kit-psd)

## Tutorials

* [SolWP for beginners](https://solwp.olefredrik.com/posts/tutorials/solwp-for-beginners/)
* [Responsive images in WordPress with Interchange](http://rachievee.com/responsive-images-in-wordpress/)
* [Build a Responsive WordPress theme](http://www.webdesignermag.co.uk/build-a-responsive-wordpress-theme/)
* [Learn to use the _settings file to change almost every aspect of a Foundation site](http://zurb.com/university/lessons/66)
* [Other lessons from Zurb University](http://zurb.com/university/past-lessons)

## Documentation

* [Zurb Foundation Docs](http://solwp.zurb.com/docs/)
* [WordPress Codex](http://codex.wordpress.org/)

## Showcase

* [Harvard Center for Green Buildings and Cities](http://www.harvardcgbc.org/)
* [INTI International University & Colleges](http://international.newinti.edu.my/)
* [Conservative Leadership Conference](http://civitasclc.com/)
* [The New Tropic](http://thenewtropic.com/)
* [Parent-Child Home Program](http://www.parent-child.org/)
* [Hip and Healthy](http://hipandhealthy.com/)
* [Threadbird blog](http://blog.threadbird.com/)
* [Public House Wines](http://publichousewine.com/)
* [Franchise Career Advisors](http://franchisecareeradvisors.com/)
* [Le saint](http://www.lesaint.ca/)
* [Help blog](http://help.com/blog/)
* [Maren Schmidt](http://marenschmidt.com/)
* [Ciancimino Gallery](http://ciancimino.com/)
* [The Rainbow Venues](http://www.therainbowvenues.co.uk/)
* [Ameronix](http://www.ameronix.com/)
* [Finnerodja](http://www.finnerodja.se/)
* [Glossop Cartons](http://www.glossopcartons.co.uk/)
* [Ready4Work](http://www.ready4work.my/)
* [Just Legal](http://www.justlegal.co.jp/en/)
* [Vintage and Stuff](http://vintageandstuff.com/)
* [Software for FM](http://softwareforfm.co.uk/)
* [WP Diamonds](http://www.wpdiamonds.com/)
* [Storm Arts](http://stormarts.fi/)
* [USS Illinois](http://ussillinois.org/)
* [OffGrid Magazine](https://offgridweb.com/)
* [Axe](http://www.axe.be/)
* [ProfitGym](http://profitgym.nl/)
* [Dr Now](http://www.drnow.com/)
* [Agritur Piasina](http://www.agriturpiasina.it/)
* [Atomic Interactive](http://atomicinteractive.com/)
* [Byington Vineyard & Winery](http://byington.com/)
* [Philanthropy House](http://philanthropyhouse.eu/)
* [TVA Group](http://www.groupe-tva.com/en/)
* [Forte Science](https://www.forte-science.co.jp/)
* [Well Made Studio](http://wellmadestudio.com/)
* [Show And Tell](http://www.showandtelluk.com/)
* [Wahl + Case](https://www.wahlandcase.com/)
* [Forefront Dermatology](https://forefrontdermatology.com/)
* [Wirthschaftsjunioren](http://www.wirtschaftsjunioren.org/)


>Credit goes to all the brilliant designers and developers out there. Have **you** made a site that should be on this list? [Please let me know](https://twitter.com/olefredrik)

## Contributing
#### Here are ways to get involved:

1. [Star](https://github.com/olefredrik/SolWP/stargazers) the project!
2. Answer questions that come through [GitHub issues](https://github.com/olefredrik/SolWP/issues)
3. Report a bug that you find
4. Share a theme you've built on top of SolWP
5. [Tweet](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?original_referer=http%3A%2F%2Fsolwp.olefredrik.com%2F&text=Check%20out%20SolWP%2C%20the%20ultimate%20%23WordPress%20starter-theme%20built%20on%20%23Foundation%206&tw_p=tweetbutton&url=http%3A%2F%2Fsolwp.olefredrik.com&via=olefredrik) and [blog](http://www.justinfriebel.com/my-first-experience-with-solwp-a-wordpress-starter-theme-106/) your experience of SolWP.

#### Pull Requests

Pull requests are highly appreciated. Please follow these guidelines:

1. Solve a problem. Features are great, but even better is cleaning-up and fixing issues in the code that you discover
2. Make sure that your code is bug-free and does not introduce new bugs
3. Create a [pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request)
4. Verify that all the Travis-CI build checks have passed

Commit message:

this is an important commit.  starting from right after this commit, i am going to potentially change the theme/design of the entire site to match a different material ui.  this is the last commit where everythign is still according to plan

README.md, after:

# SolWP [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/olefredrik/SolWP.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/olefredrik/SolWP)
[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/tpkemme/solwp?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge)

SolWP is a Dark Material theme for WordPress created using Foundationpress, CMB2, and Gulp. The purpose of SolWP, is to act as a small and handy toolbox that contains the essentials needed to build any design using Wordpress.

One of the advantages of using a framework like Foundation 6 is that the structure for all site elements is already created before you start.  This was the intended purpose of Foundationpress, the Wordpress Theme built upon Foundation 6.  However, Foundationpress lacked real Wordpress integrations: Foundation elements could only be configured using HTML.

This is where SolWP really shines: every Foundation element of SolWP has an associated shortcode and widget.  Users can insert customized Foundation elements anywhere on the site by simply generating a shortcode or adding a widget to his/her page-builder plugin.  If that's not enough, the SolWP Theme settings will give users complete control over every part of the site's design.  Although SolWP has a sleek, modern design already configured, every piece of SolWP can be customized to the user's liking.

All contributions are welcome!

## Requirements

**This project requires [Node.js](http://nodejs.org) v4.x.x to v6.9.x to be installed on your machine.** Please be aware that you will most likely encounter problems with the installation if you are using v7.1.0 with all the latest features.

SolWP uses [Sass](http://Sass-lang.com/) (CSS with superpowers). In short, Sass is a CSS pre-processor that allows you to write styles more effectively and tidy.

The Sass is compiled using libsass, which requires the GCC to be installed on your machine. Windows users can install it through [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/), and Mac users can install it through the [Xcode Command-line Tools](http://osxdaily.com/2014/02/12/install-command-line-tools-mac-os-x/).

If you have not worked with a Sass-based workflow before, I would recommend reading [SolWP for beginners](https://solwp.olefredrik.com/posts/tutorials/solwp-for-beginners), a short blog post that explains what you need to know.

## Quickstart

### 1. Clone the repository and install with npm
```bash
$ cd my-wordpress-folder/wp-content/themes/
$ git clone https://github.com/olefredrik/SolWP.git
$ cd SolWP
$ npm install
```

### 2. While you're working on your project, run:

```bash
$ npm run watch
```

If you want to take advantage of browser-sync (automatic browser refresh when a file is saved), simply open your Gulpfile.js and put your local dev-server address (e.g localhost) in this field ```var URL = '';``` , save the Gulpfile and run
```bash
$ npm run watch
```

### 3. For building all the assets, run:

```bash
$ npm run build
```

Build all assets minified and without sourcemaps:
```bash
$ npm run production
```

### 4. To create a .zip file of your theme, run:

```bash
$ npm run package
```

Running this command will build and minify the theme's assets and place a `.zip` archive of the theme in the `packaged` directory. This excludes the developer files/directories from your theme like `node_modules`, `assets/components`, etc. to keep the theme lightweight for transferring the theme to a staging or production server.

### Styles

 * `style.css`: Do not worry about this file. (For some reason) it's required by WordPress. All styling are handled in the Sass files described below

 * `assets/scss/solwp.scss`: Make imports for all your styles here
 * `assets/scss/global/*.scss`: Global settings
 * `assets/scss/components/*.scss`: Buttons etc.
 * `assets/scss/modules/*.scss`: Topbar, footer etc.
 * `assets/scss/templates/*.scss`: Page template spesific styling

Please note that you **must** run `npm run build` or `npm run watch` in your terminal for the styles to be copied and concatenated. See the [Gulpfile.js](https://github.com/olefredrik/SolWP/blob/master/gulpfile.js) for details

### Scripts

* `assets/javascript/custom`: This is the folder where you put all your custom scripts. Every .js file you put in this directory will be minified and concatenated one single .js file. (This is good for site speed and performance)

Please note that you must run `npm run build` or `npm run watch` in your terminal for the scripts to be copied and concatenated. See [Gulpfile.js](https://github.com/olefredrik/SolWP/blob/master/gulpfile.js) for details

### The main styles and scripts generated by the build

Version control on these files are turned off because they are automatically generated as part of the build process.

* `assets/stylesheets/solwp.css`: All Sass files are minified and compiled to this file
* `assets/stylesheets/solwp.css.map`: CSS source maps

* `assets/javascript/vendor`: Vendor scripts are copied from `assets/components/` to this directory. We use this path for enqueing the vendor scripts in WordPress.

### Check For WordPress Coding Standards

Foundation comes with everything you need to run tests that will check your theme for WordPress Coding Standards. To enable this feature you'll need to install PHP Codesniffer, along with the WordPress Coding Standards set of "Sniffs". You'll need to have [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/) To install both run the following:
```bash
$ composer create-project wp-coding-standards/wpcs:dev-master --no-dev
```
When prompted to remove existing VCS, answer Yes by typing `Y`.

Once you have installed the packages, you can check your entire theme by running:
```bash
$ npm run phpcs
```

If there are errors that Code Sniffer can fix automatically, run the following command to fix them:
```bash
$ npm run phpcbf
```

## Demo

* [Clean SolWP install](http://solwp.olefredrik.com/)
* [SolWP Kitchen Sink - see every single element in action](http://solwp.olefredrik.com/kitchen-sink/)

## Unit Testing With Travis-CI

SolWP is completely ready to be deployed to and tested by Travis-CI for WordPress Coding Standards and best practices. All you need to do to activate the test is sign up and follow the instructions to point Travis-CI towards your repo. Just don't forget to update the status badge to point to your repositories unit test.
[Travis-CI](https://travis-ci.org/)

## UI toolkits for rapid prototyping

* [Foundation UI Kit for Axure RP](https://gumroad.com/l/solwp-ui-kit-axure-rp)
* [FoundationXD - Foundation UI Kit for Adobe XD](https://gumroad.com/l/solwp-ui-kit-xd)
* [FoundationPSD - Foundation UI Kit for Photoshop](https://gumroad.com/l/solwp-ui-kit-psd)

## Tutorials

* [SolWP for beginners](https://solwp.olefredrik.com/posts/tutorials/solwp-for-beginners/)
* [Responsive images in WordPress with Interchange](http://rachievee.com/responsive-images-in-wordpress/)
* [Build a Responsive WordPress theme](http://www.webdesignermag.co.uk/build-a-responsive-wordpress-theme/)
* [Learn to use the _settings file to change almost every aspect of a Foundation site](http://zurb.com/university/lessons/66)
* [Other lessons from Zurb University](http://zurb.com/university/past-lessons)

## Documentation

* [Zurb Foundation Docs](http://solwp.zurb.com/docs/)
* [WordPress Codex](http://codex.wordpress.org/)

## Showcase

* [Harvard Center for Green Buildings and Cities](http://www.harvardcgbc.org/)
* [INTI International University & Colleges](http://international.newinti.edu.my/)
* [Conservative Leadership Conference](http://civitasclc.com/)
* [The New Tropic](http://thenewtropic.com/)
* [Parent-Child Home Program](http://www.parent-child.org/)
* [Hip and Healthy](http://hipandhealthy.com/)
* [Threadbird blog](http://blog.threadbird.com/)
* [Public House Wines](http://publichousewine.com/)
* [Franchise Career Advisors](http://franchisecareeradvisors.com/)
* [Le saint](http://www.lesaint.ca/)
* [Help blog](http://help.com/blog/)
* [Maren Schmidt](http://marenschmidt.com/)
* [Ciancimino Gallery](http://ciancimino.com/)
* [The Rainbow Venues](http://www.therainbowvenues.co.uk/)
* [Ameronix](http://www.ameronix.com/)
* [Finnerodja](http://www.finnerodja.se/)
* [Glossop Cartons](http://www.glossopcartons.co.uk/)
* [Ready4Work](http://www.ready4work.my/)
* [Just Legal](http://www.justlegal.co.jp/en/)
* [Vintage and Stuff](http://vintageandstuff.com/)
* [Software for FM](http://softwareforfm.co.uk/)
* [WP Diamonds](http://www.wpdiamonds.com/)
* [Storm Arts](http://stormarts.fi/)
* [USS Illinois](http://ussillinois.org/)
* [OffGrid Magazine](https://offgridweb.com/)
* [Axe](http://www.axe.be/)
* [ProfitGym](http://profitgym.nl/)
* [Dr Now](http://www.drnow.com/)
* [Agritur Piasina](http://www.agriturpiasina.it/)
* [Atomic Interactive](http://atomicinteractive.com/)
* [Byington Vineyard & Winery](http://byington.com/)
* [Philanthropy House](http://philanthropyhouse.eu/)
* [TVA Group](http://www.groupe-tva.com/en/)
* [Forte Science](https://www.forte-science.co.jp/)
* [Well Made Studio](http://wellmadestudio.com/)
* [Show And Tell](http://www.showandtelluk.com/)
* [Wahl + Case](https://www.wahlandcase.com/)
* [Forefront Dermatology](https://forefrontdermatology.com/)
* [Wirthschaftsjunioren](http://www.wirtschaftsjunioren.org/)


>Credit goes to all the brilliant designers and developers out there. Have **you** made a site that should be on this list? [Please let me know](https://twitter.com/olefredrik)

## Contributing
#### Here are ways to get involved:

1. [Star](https://github.com/olefredrik/SolWP/stargazers) the project!
2. Answer questions that come through [GitHub issues](https://github.com/olefredrik/SolWP/issues)
3. Report a bug that you find
4. Share a theme you've built on top of SolWP
5. [Tweet](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?original_referer=http%3A%2F%2Fsolwp.olefredrik.com%2F&text=Check%20out%20SolWP%2C%20the%20ultimate%20%23WordPress%20starter-theme%20built%20on%20%23Foundation%206&tw_p=tweetbutton&url=http%3A%2F%2Fsolwp.olefredrik.com&via=olefredrik) and [blog](http://www.justinfriebel.com/my-first-experience-with-solwp-a-wordpress-starter-theme-106/) your experience of SolWP.

#### Pull Requests

Pull requests are highly appreciated. Please follow these guidelines:

1. Solve a problem. Features are great, but even better is cleaning-up and fixing issues in the code that you discover
2. Make sure that your code is bug-free and does not introduce new bugs
3. Create a [pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request)
4. Verify that all the Travis-CI build checks have passed
